My theme for this month's broadcast is young ones.
Build your future with Jehovah.
If you do, 1 Timothy 619 assures that you will safely treasure up for yourself
a fine foundation for the future, and you will get a firm hold on the real life.
Obviously, we will be directing many of our comments directly to you dear young ones in Jehovah's organization.
Yet if we think about it, all of us figuratively are very young ones, compared to eternity.
How long we hope to live.
So in a sense, our comments during this broadcast have application to all of us.
Personally, I am so thankful to Jehovah that positive peer pressure was put on me to enter the Pioneer Ministry right out of high school.
What a blessing and a protection it was to enter the regular Pioneer work at age 17, and to be able to go to Bethlehem at age 18.
Even though there was considerable worldly pressure put on me to pursue university education, I am so happy that with Jehovah's help,
I decided to build my future with Jehovah.
Truly, I have no regrets.
And this is always true of young ones who served Jehovah from their hearts.
They have no regrets.
In fact, you will enjoy these expressions from young ones who are building their future with Jehovah.
Before I started pioneering, I was really nervous that I wouldn't be able to get my time in every month.
It was a bit hard when I started pioneering because I didn't have a car.
My boss, he didn't give me part-time work.
I found it really hard to balance schoolwork and pioneering at the same time.
My biggest struggle was fear of man, so that really hindered me because I wasn't very good at talking to people.
Having a good routine was a struggle.
My brother and I are the only ones in the truth.
My family didn't understand why we wanted to go preaching.
I didn't think that I'd make a good pioneer.
I've had type 1 diabetes since I was 5, so I was always worried about whether or not I could balance that health condition with the pioneering.
Challenges don't seem that big now, but back at that time there were a really big deal.
But the coolest thing was how Jehovah helped me.
Prior to Jehovah helped me overcome my fears.
My family were a massive help from Jehovah, because my dad was the one who first encouraged me to pioneer.
When I did start pioneering, he promised that I would have the full support of my family.
When I spoke to brothers and sisters who spent their youth in the full-time service, that really helped me because it was really encouraging.
And it really motivated me to want to make my own memories and my own experiences in the full-time service.
So they were practical things I could do.
I didn't have a car. I just walked or I caught the bus.
I had to work out what my priorities were first.
So I had to find out how many hours did I have to go in this thing every week.
So then I just sat down and I looked at every day and planned out which days I could go in this thing, which days I had to go to school and also allocate time so that I could do my homework and study.
Having a schedule was really good because I could see it all out in front of me and I could see that the hour requirement was actually attainable, so that made it a lot less daunting.
I first set short-term goals of pioneering in the special months of activity.
Then I was able to begin continuous auxiliary and then eventually I started regular pioneering.
One of the best things I did to prepare myself for pioneering was to auxiliary pioneer beforehand.
It really set me up to be able to overcome any challenges that I faced while I was pioneering.
I thought about Melika 310. I knew I trusted in Jehovah but this was my chance to test him out.
I prayed, put my trust in Jehovah and put my application in.
After my form was in for pioneering, my brother, with time, my brother called me and offered me work.
I had unemployment for three months which wasn't a good time but during that time I had Jehovah as my main focus and so he supported me and he didn't let me down.
Asking brothers and sisters to come and work with me maybe on days that I knew that I wouldn't get as much support really helped.
That helped me to organise my hours a little bit more and also I'd get to know my brothers and sisters more as well.
One of the greatest joes of pioneering has been to Pioneer with Mum and we had the privilege of going to the Pioneer School together which was really special.
Sam 16 was said, reminds me that Jehovah is right beside me when I'm preaching, it's like Jehovah is holding my hand.
So with full time of service, I love making Jehovah happy with everything he knows given me and finally able to give something back.
Looking back, pioneering was the best decision I've ever made. It's opened up so many different avenues of service to Jehovah and it helped me also to have that real desire to want to stay in full time service.
Helping someone on the road to everlasting life is the best feeling ever and it's really irreplaceable.
The only thing I can say as a young person start pioneering.
What a fine attitude those young ones have. They are clearly following in Jesus footsteps.
Jesus was the wisest man who ever walked the earth. He could have pursued any career and truly excelled at it.
He could have been the greatest carpenter who ever lived. Think about it. He helped his father build the physical universe.
Can you imagine what kind of houses he could have built?
Or what if he had pursued being an inventor with his perfect brain?
He probably could have invented the telephone automobile or computer in the first century.
Or what about becoming a businessman with perfect intelligence? He likely could have come out on top of every business transaction that he entered.
Becoming the richest businessman who ever lived.
Or have you ever thought about if he had pursued becoming an athlete?
And excelling an athletic contest was a huge endeavor in Jesus' day.
With a little training, it is likely that his perfect body would have outperformed all people with imperfect bodies, enabling him to become the most famous athlete who ever lived.
Or one more example, what if he had decided to become a doctor?
He could cure sick people, even raise the dead.
Can you imagine how much he could have charged rich people to raise their dead loved ones?
But Jesus pursued none of these careers. Why?
Because he knew that any of such endeavors would have only very limited and temporary benefits.
Instead, he pursued something he knew would bring far-reaching and everlasting benefits, the full-time ministry.
If this is how the wisest man who ever walked the earth, if this is how he reasoned, weer wise if we strive to think the same way.
That makes me think of the comments of a well-adjusted teenage brother whom we served while in the circuit work many years ago.
This young brother went straight into the regular pioneer work out of high school, and I asked him while he did so.
He explained that he knew he could have gotten a full-time secular job and bought a new car for himself.
But he reasoned that in a few years that car would rust out and break down and he would have nothing.
But he knew that he could go into the pioneer work and build a close relationship with Jehovah.
And perhaps even find an honest-hearted person and be able to teach that one the truth, and he knew that would last forever.
Now, that is some wise thinking on a part of that young brother.
And today, that brother has a beautiful Christian wife and several spiritual children, and he is serving as a fine elder.
But if you young ones are going to think this way and continue to pursue spiritual goals, it is vital that you wisely choose your associates.
In a sense, our associates can be likened to an elevator. What do we mean?
Well, they can take you up or they can take you down. If you choose wisely, they will take you up.
Elevate your good qualities and make you a better person. But if you choose poorly, they will take you down.
Depending on how badly you choose, they can take you way down to the basement.
At Proverbs 13-20, our loving Heavenly Father, who made us, explains how it works.
Jehovah tells us there, the one walking with the wise will become wise.
But the one who has dealings with a stupid will fare badly.
Walking with and having dealings with means associating with.
And who are the stupid ones? Well, this scripture contrasts such a person with those who are wise.
It is not talking about someone who lacks mental intellect. It is talking about someone who does not make wise decisions spiritually from Jehovah's standpoint.
And if we think about it, anyone who is not really serving Jehovah, at least right now, that one is on wise indeed.
And if we associate closely with such ones, Jehovah says that we will fare badly.
We can use another illustration. Think about someone who is physically sick and is running a high fever.
If we spend a lot of time with that person, we will probably catch the same sickness or worse.
If we spend a lot of time near a dead body, a corpse, we will probably pick up a disease.
Well, it is similar with spending time with a person who is spiritually sick or worse, spiritually dead.
On the other hand, if we choose as our associates, those who love Jehovah and who are building their everlasting future with Jehovah, we will benefit greatly.
Please observe carefully this variety of young ones who are busy storing up treasures in heaven with Jehovah.
Heartwarming, it is to us. And we know it is to Jehovah to see these beautiful young people doing what Jesus encourages at Matthew chapter 6, 20 and 21.
There are Jesus encourages, store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, for neither moth nor rust consumes.
And where thieves do not break in and steal, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
And if we think about it in the final analysis, after all is said and done, whether we are younger or older, our net worth will be what we have stored up in heaven with Jehovah.
We will not be able to take material treasures with us through the great tribulation. And if we die, we certainly will not be able to take material treasures with us.
But we can take spiritual treasures with us through the great tribulation and even through death and resurrection.
It is true with all of Jehovah's people as it is with the anointed what is stated at Revelation 14-13.
It says there, the things they did go right with them. And how encouraging it is to see young ones getting baptized, publicly demonstrating that they are giving their lives to Jehovah.
And we sincerely hope that you young ones who are not yet baptized will not hold back from getting baptized as soon as you qualify.
The sooner you can get baptized, the sooner you will receive greater protection and blessings from Jehovah.
Not long ago, it made me very happy to observe a little tinier old brother get baptized.
And young ones never be afraid to identify yourself as one of Jehovah's witnesses.
Never allow the fear of what others may think to cause you to hesitate to do so.
Jehovah tells us at Proverbs 29-25, trembling at men is a snare, but the one trusting in Jehovah will be protected.
Many years ago when I was in school, I can remember being at times somewhat worried about how my fellow classmates would view me.
But then a little while later, I got out of school and never ever again even saw most of those former classmates.
Then it dawned on me. It doesn't really matter what people think about us.
It is Jehovah's rating of us that truly counts.
Humans cannot add even five seconds to our lifespan.
But Jehovah can add or subtract eternity, and he alone can also give us true happiness.
And as Proverbs 29-25 indicates, what a protection it is to courageously identify ourselves as one of Jehovah's witnesses.
Fully trusting Jehovah and taking our stand solidly with him.
Never be ashamed of who you are.
You are one of Jehovah's witnesses.
And please dear young ones, we warmly encourage you to listen to those who love you.
Jehovah loves you very much. The governing body loves you very much.
The elders love you very much. Your Christian parents love you very much.
And these ones will tell you the truth. Even though at times it may not be what you want to hear.
They will not tickle your ears, perhaps like ones at school or in the neighborhood, who don't really love you, or have your best interest at heart.
But please believe those who will tell you the truth because they love you.
And never viewed Jehovah's laws and principles as depriving you of something good.
View them as protecting you from what will hurt you.
If you recall, Satan convinced Eve that she was being deprived by Jehovah and was missing out on something good.
Now it is true that Eve was missing out on something.
But what was she really missing out on?
A tormented conscience, her beautiful hair turning gray, her teeth falling out, her perfect skin wrinkling up like a prune,
being bent over from old age, hobbling around on a cane, and finally dying.
But Satan convinced her that Jehovah was depriving her.
So foolishly, she reached out to get what she thought she was missing out on.
Well, Satan will try to use the same kind of strategy on you.
But please don't let him do it.
This also makes me think of an experience of brother once related.
He said that he was visiting an animal observatory and a large lion launched toward him, but was prevented from reaching him by a thick glass pane.
Separating the animals from the observers.
As the lion stood on his hind legs, clawing the glass and bearing his massive teeth.
The brother came to realize in a special way the protective value of that barrier.
Previously, he said that he somewhat viewed the glass pane as a restriction because the smudges on it partially blurred his view.
But now he viewed it as a real protection.
Well, in a similar way, Jehovah doesn't want Satan, who is described as a roaring, devouring lion at first Peter 5.8.
He doesn't want him to gobble down you young ones.
And his laws and principles are designed to keep that from happening to you.
So please listen to Jehovah. He loves you.